In this section, we’ll take a guided tour of Open Education Resources and how you can use them in your F2F and blended classroom to increase student learning outcomes. You will also learn about the conditions necessary to make your blended classroom work for you vs the other way around.

“If you have an apple and I have an apple and we exchange these apples then you and I will still each have one apple. But if you have an idea and I have an idea and we exchange these ideas, then each of us will have two ideas.”  - George Bernard Shaw

This document: bit.ly/oerfromron - Ron’s List.ly

What are Open Education Resources (OER)?

"Open educational resources" (or OER) have become a widely discussed topic in recent years. Open educational resources are educational materials (e.g., course textbooks, research articles, videos, assessments, simulations, etc.) that are either (a) licensed under an open copyright license (e.g., Creative Commons1) or (b) in the public domain. In both cases, every person in the world enjoys free (no cost) access to the OER and free (no cost) permission to engage in the "4R" activities when using the OER:

Revise—adapt and improve the OER so it better meets your needs.
Remix—combine or "mash up" the OER with other OER to produce new materials.
Reuse—use the original or your new version of the OER in a wide range of contexts.
Redistribute—make copies and share the original OER or your new version with others.

Your first steps in using OER requires a small commitment of locating and using resources for one classroom at a time, one lesson at a time, one day at a time!
Creative Commons?
Six Licenses for Sharing Your Intellectual Property and Creative Works
Create License 
Best practices for providing attribution
The TEACH act


Step 1 - ATNAPFTS!
Content Management System / Learning Management System / Link Management System

CMS
Google Site - Integrated into your Google Apps for Education (GAfE) Domain
Blogger - Owned by Google 
WordPress - World class blogging platform and much more 
EduBlogs - Based on Wordpress - ad supported
Weebly - Easy free website - Like Mrs. Doyle’s!
Wix - like Mrs. Leckenby’s!
Wikispaces- Wiki
PBWorks - Wiki - Example: Ron’s awesome wiki :)
School provided webpage - easy to edit and locate? Sparta Area Schools or CPPS as an example.
LMS
Moodle - moodle.kentisd.org - Free for REMC member school districts - Example: RPS - 21TFT
Edify - edify.kentisd.org - Example:  MAISA Open Access Courses built in Edify
Schoology - Free for individual teachers 
Edmodo - Free - looks like Facebook
Blackboard CourseSites - Free
My Big Campus - $$$ - Tied into Lightspeed’s filter offering
Google Classroom - coming in September ‘14 - Announcement - Actual Classroom Video - Slides

Contextualize your writing!

Link Management System - Curation System
Bit.ly / J.mp - Shorten URLs to make it easier for your learners 
Symbaloo - Ron’s link page
Educlipper - visual content curation
Diigo - easy link curation
Livebinders - Ron’s Livebinder
List.ly - Examples: U Pick Farms in W. Michigan - Ron’s free music for your project list
Pinterest? Yes… really. Examples: Ron Houtman -  CCSS - ELA

Step 2: Map out your lessons / scope and sequence
SAMR it first -what are your goals and outcomes? - More SAMR
Common Core Navigator from Learnzillion - or BetterLesson - or KA Math
MDE CCSS - includes crosswalks from HSCE/GLCE

Step 3 - Lets Learn about CC Search
Copyright Friendly
Flickr: Creative Commons
Flickr Blue Mountain
Compfight / A Flickr Search Tool
FlickrStorm
Foter, PhotoPin, and Wylio (great for bloggers!)
Getty Images (embed images with symbol for noncommercial use)
Wikimedia Commons
Pixabay (public domain photos)
Picdrome (public domain photos)
TinEye (search by CC images by color)
Morgue File
EduPic Graphical Resource (free photos & graphics for education)
World Images Kiosk (global images for academic use)
Public Domain Pictures
Pics4Learning 
Imageafter
Wellcome Images

Step 4: Pick your OERs
As you build your blended classroom, you will want to give your learners additional methods and experiences for them to understand the course content. As you use these resources, keep an eye out for a way that you can share a direct link to - or embed the learning object.  We do this to minimize confusion and ensure our students don’t waste time trying to track down what you intend them to use.

Collections of OER
Academic Earth (college video lectures)
CK-12 Flexbooks (textbooks)
Connexions (textbooks and lessons)
HippoCampus (digital media)
National Archives - Primary Source Documents
Library of Congress DIgital Collections
MeL MORE Michiana - Digital Primary Source Documents - MORE MEL
Boundless - OER introductory textbooks and study tools.
Gutenberg Project -  42,000 public domain texts and classical literature.
Ron’s list of favorites
OER Search Engines
OER Commons
Curriki
MERLOT
Full Courses
Michigan Learns Online
Open High School of Utah Open Courseware
Saylor

Video Presentation about Open Textbooks 



Step 5: Build Your Blended Course

Video Welcome
Syllabus
Expectations
Specific Directions
Discussion forums - how to get help
Modularize
Due dates
Embedding



Problem or Project Based Learning Ideas
Learn about a Canadian Soldier
http://www.cbc.ca/spark/episodes/2014/06/01/spark-253/
http://www.cbc.ca/spark/blog/2014/06/01/digital-d-day/

What your kids are doing - How to start the year out….





